extend history retention to 8192 and modify blockhash to charge additional sload gas (#4)
gballet/EIPs: EIPS/eip-2935.md

---
eip: 2935
title: Serve historical block hashes from state
description: Store and serve last 8192 block hashes as storage slots of a system contract to allow for stateless execution

> author: Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin), Tomasz Stanczak (@tkstanczak), Guillaume Ballet (@gballet), Gajinder Singh (@g11tech), Tanishq Jasoria (@tanishqjasoria)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Vitalik Buterin (@vbuterin), Tomasz Stanczak (@tkstanczak), Guillaume Ballet (@gballet), Gajinder Singh (@g11tech), Tanishq Jasoria (@tanishqjasoria), Ignacio Hagopian (@jsign)
```
:)

## Abstract

> Store last `8192` historical block hashes in a contract, and modify the `BLOCKHASH (0x40)` opcode to read and serve from this contract storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Store last `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW` historical block hashes in a contract, and modify the `BLOCKHASH (0x40)` opcode to read and serve from this contract storage.
```

## Motivation

Currently `BLOCKHASH` opcode accesses history to resolve hash of the block number in EVM. However a more stateless client friendly way is to maintain and serve these hashes from state.

Although this is possible even in Merkle trie state, but Verkle trie state further allows bundling the `BLOCKHASH` witnesses (along with other witnesses) in an efficient manner making it worthwhile to have these in state.

> A side benefit of this approach could be that it allows building/validating proofs related to last `8192` ancestors directly against the current state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A side benefit of this approach could be that it allows building/validating proofs related to last `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW` ancestors directly against the current state.
```

    if block.timestamp >= FORK_TIMESTAMP:
        state.insert_slot(HISTORY_STORAGE_ADDRESS, (block.number-1) % HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW , block.parent.hash)

    # If this is the fork block, add the parent's direct `BLOCKHASH_PERSIST_WINDOW - 1` ancestors as well
    if block.parent.timestamp < FORK_TIMESTAMP:
        ancestor = block.parent

>         for i in range(FORK_TRANSITION_PERSIST_LENGTH - 1):

Reviewer: I think you intended to put `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW`? since FORK_TRANSITION_PERSIST_LENGTH` doesn't exist. But still not sure this shouldn't be `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW` to migrate all the history, just to know all slots of the ring buffer are valid which might simplify data accessed from outside BLOCKHASH

Author: ahh its `BLOCKHASH_PERSIST_WINDOW` cleaned up

            state.insert_slot(HISTORY_STORAGE_ADDRESS, ancestor.number % HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW, ancestor.hash)
```

> Note that if this is the fork block, then it persists the additional requisite history that could be needed while resolving `BLOCKHASH` opcode for all of the `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW` > `256` ancestors (up until genesis).

Reviewer 2: that should be another constant `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW_OPCODE` instead of 256

            state.insert_slot(HISTORY_STORAGE_ADDRESS, ancestor.number % HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW, ancestor.hash)
```

Note that if this is the fork block, then it persists the additional requisite history that could be needed while resolving `BLOCKHASH` opcode for all of the `HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW` > `BLOCKHASH_OLD_WINDOW` ancestors (up until genesis).

For resolving the `BLOCKHASH` opcode this fork onwards (`block.timestamp >= FORK_TIMESTAMP`), switch the logic to:

```python
def resolve_blockhash(block: Block, state: State, arg: uint64):
  # check the wrap around range
  if arg >= block.number or (arg + HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW) < block.number
    return 0

  return state.load_slot(HISTORY_STORAGE_ADDRESS, arg % HISTORY_SERVE_WINDOW)
```

Exact evm assembly that can be used for the blockhash contract:

```

> // check for <=32 (<33) byte size or else revert

Reviewer 2: style: I'm a uppercase assemblist

calldatasize

> push1 0x21

Reviewer 2: shouldn't we limit it to 8 bytes ?

gt
push1 0x0a
// jump and skip revert

> jumpi

Reviewer 2: do we want to make the happy path more expensive? I would rather jump at the end if an error occurs. That's if the total bytecode is less than 256 bytes of course. Which it currently is.

Author: was thinking about the same, but this is the most serial code style for the manners of analysis and understanding, but yea can update to make the happy path without jumps

Author: updated

push0
push0
revert

// check if  blocknumber > input or else return 0
jumpdest
push0
calldataload
number
gt
push1 0x1a
jumpi

// return 0
push0
push0
mstore
push1 0x20
push0
return

> // check if input + 8125 > blocknumber (input >= blocknumber - 8124) or else return 0

Reviewer 2: I don't see where these two values come from?

Author: sorry its 8193 and 8192 respectively. fixed
